#title How to Submit data

* Introduction

Welcome to the Cistrome data collection system. Now that you have some
new dataset and want to submit it to our system, it's great! Simply go
to this [[Data Submit][page]] to submit your NDD file which is defined [[#definition][here]]. ( [[#sample][sample]] )

** add entry
In the [[Data Submit][submission page]], use the top form, click 'Browse...' to locate
your NDD file which must be a plain text file, then click 'Submit
Query'. After you submit an entry, a md5key will be generated based on
the date/time you submit and the content of your entry. Write this
md5key down, since it will be required if you want to delete or update
this entry.

#find
** find some entry
Got to the [[RawDataBrowser][Data collection]] page, you can search by people who submit
data or by entry id, or browse by people or paper.

** delete entry
If you made some mistake for your submission, you can easily delete it
through [[Data Submit][submission page]] by using the Delete form, or first
[[#find][find the entry]] then when you see the detail of the entry, click the
'delete' link near id number. You will be asked for md5key or
administrator password to go ahead. If you forget your md5key, contact
[[mailto:taoliu@jimmy.harvard.edu][me]] and I will delete the entry for you.

#definition
* NDD definition

All the information should be saved in a single plain-text file
(suffix .ndd ) with eighteen rows. Every row must begin with the
following defined field names followed by an equals sign ‘=’, for
example ‘Factor= CTCF’. User can also begin a comment line in NDD file
with ‘#’, for example ‘# This is a comment line’. Note, the TextEdit
in Mac OSX save file as rich-format text by default, go to
'Format->Make Plain Text' if necessary.

All the field names are case-sensitive. Fields are:

Index ::

  The index number is counted from 1. This field is unique for every
  entry. It will be adjusted by data import pipeline, so your
  assignment here doesn't affect anything.

Factor ::

  Factor is the name of transcription factor. More properly, it’s the
  antibody name. For example, CTCF, FoxA1 , etc.

Organism ::

  The Taxonomy name of the organism. Names for the most commonly used
  organisms in research can be found in NCBI Taxonomy Tree. For
  example, Homo sapiens, Mus musculus, etc.

Assembly ::

  The assembly version. It’s critical for a proper coordination
  system. Use the UCSC style if possible, like hg18 for the March 2006
  human reference sequence (NCBI Build 36.1).

Cell ::

  It is related to the term "cell culture" which refers to the
  culturing of cells derived from multicellular eukaryotes. Common
  cell line names can be found in Wikipedia:Cell culture and
  Wikipedia:Category:Cell lines, for example HeLa, LNCap, and MCF-7.

Platform ::

  Experiment platform name. If it is from ChIP-chip experiment, the
  array company, array version must be included, for example
  ‘Affymetrix GeneChip Human Tiling 2.0R Array Set, Array 7’.

Status ::

  Can be ‘NA’ if no data available, ‘processing’ if raw data has been
  collected but not processed, or ‘completed’ if both peak information
  and score profile are available.

Raw ::

  The absolute path to raw data archive on freesia (our data
  repository) cluster. The raw data must be archived in a gzipped tar
  ball, and named as raw.tar.gz. So that the
  /path/to/rawdata/raw.tar.gz is where user can find the data in
  freesia. If no data available, use ‘NA’ instead.

XLS ::

  The absolute path to XLS file representing peak locations on freesia
  (our data repository) cluster, for example,
  /path/to/bed/CTCF.bed. The XLS file is generated by MAT/MA2C/MACS,
  so it is a tab-delimited plain text file. If data is not processed,
  use ‘NA’ instead.

Wiggle ::

  The absolute path on freesia (our data repository) cluster to Wiggle
  files representing the profile for any kind of scores along the
  genome, for example, /path/to/bed/CTCF.wig.tar.gz. The XLS file is
  generated by MAT/MA2C/MACS, so it is a tab-delimited plain text
  file. All XLS files for this entry must be archived in a gzipped tar
  ball. If data is not processed, use ‘NA’ instead.

Lab ::

  The laboratory where the data came from. For example, Brown’s lab.

Paper ::

  The title of the paper which first introduced the data.

Condition ::

  For example, the development stage. Or other experimental condition.

GEO ::
  
  Always check the GEO database and provide the GEO accession id if
possible, for example GPL4916:GSE7168:GSM172646 (‘GPL4916’ for
platform, ‘GSE7168’ for series, and ‘GSM172646’ for samples). If there
are several replicates or chips for this entry, write it using commas
as delimitor between different samples, like GPL4916:
GSE7168:GSM172646,GSM172647,GSM172649,GSM172650,GSM172651

PubMED ::

  The PubMED id for paper.

Type ::

  The type of data, whether ‘ChIP-chip’, ‘ChIP-PET’ or ‘ChIP-seq’.

Comment ::

  Fill this field with parameters used while processing the data with
  MAT/MA2C/MACS.

Submit ::

  People who submits this NDD file.

#sample
* sample NDD file

Here is a complete NDD file, check the [[#simpler][simpler one]] if you like.

<example>
# Content in CTCF_HeLa-G2.ndd
# comment line must begin with ‘#’
# Time-stamp: <2008-09-15 17:40:14 Tao Liu> 

Index= CSM11
Factor= CTCF
Organism= Homo sapiens
Assembly= hg18
Cell= HeLa
Platform= Affymetrix GeneChip Human Tiling 1.0R Array set
Status= completed
Raw= /cluster/homes/zcoban/11/CEL/CTCF_raw.tar.gz
XLS= /cluster/homes/zcoban/11/TAG/CTCF_peak.xls
Wiggle= /cluster/homes/zcoban/11/TAG/CTCF_wiggle.tar.gz
Lab= Laboratory of Chromosome Structure and Inheritance, Graduate School of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Department of Biological Sciences
Paper= Cohesin mediates transcriptional insulation by CCCTC-binding factor
Condition= G2 phase
GEO=GPL6131:GSE9613:GSM243234,GSM243235,GSM243236,GSM243237,GSM243238,GSM243239,GSM243240,GSM243241,GSM243242,GSM243243,GSM243244,GSM243245,GSM243246,GSM243247
PubMED= 18235444
Type= ChIP-chip
Comment= Using MAT, default, p-value cutoff 1e-3

# submitted by

Submit= Test
</example>

#simpler
A much simpler example:
<example>
Factor= CTCF
Organism= Homo sapiens
Platform= Affymetrix GeneChip Human Tiling 1.0R Array set

# for status, if you provided all the raw/peak/wiggle data, write it as 'completed', otherwise, 'processing'
Status= completed

# title for the paper.
Paper= Cohesin mediates transcriptional insulation by CCCTC-binding factor

# the GEO accession number. platform id:series id:sample ids
GEO=GSE9613

# pubmed id
PubMED= 18235444

# submitted by. It's very important if you want to join the competition.

Submit= Test
</example>


If you don't know how to fill in certain field, leave it with 'NA',
for example 'Comment= NA'.
